BURYING NINETEEN BRICKS.
If astronomical discoveries rise, and geological understanding deepens, then so too do wicked schemes and tricks embolden. We have heard from those before us that the carcasses of dogs and cats were placed in wooden coffins, and buried in graves, and that expensive tombstones were erected above their resting places. The loyalty and skill that marked the lives of these deceased creatures made their owners feel great loss after their passing and great longing in their memory. But what about some bricks (bricks) eliciting tears from the windows of one Doctor Uhling's heart, in Broooklyn, the other day, as he accompanied them to the grave? We shall let the following account of what happened offer an answer.
It appears that Uhling, (who is of an aristocratic Hungarian family), is married to a noblewoman much older than he, but that he obtained permission from her to marry another woman, much younger and more comely in appearance than her; all that she asked for in return was to have a fairly comfortable house, paid for by him. The doctor took advantage of his wife's generosity and kindness, and fell in love with a beautiful young maiden called Louisa Germs. It would seem from the following events that both were fairly poor in circumstance, but equal in terms of the guile to find ways of making money. One day, we find the doctor in the "The Merchants'" Insurance Office, in New York, making plans to  jointly (jointly) insure Louisa's life and his own for ten thousand dollars. In answer to an official query, he stated that he and Louisa were about to be married and so they were eager to prepare for the future. Since this was not unheard of, the request was granted, provided that the Company's doctor examine the two. This examination was no obstacle to their plan, instead it further facilitated and encouraged it, since the two were found to be in full health and strength. In the meantime, the policy (policy) payment was made – four hundred dollars – and the names were legally registered on the Company books.
Recently, one night, – a few weeks after the previous arrangement was finalised – a nobleman attended an audience with the President of the Insurance Company, who (the President) was, at that time (at night), was sitting in an armchair in one of the rooms at his residence. Because the light from the gas lamp was dim at the time, it wasn't easy to make out the visitor's appearance. Regardless, he made himself known in a trembling and mournful voice, wiping his tears – or at least, rubbing his eyes – with a bright white handkerchief, and he said that his message was to make known the death of Louisa Germs. By then, the President felt that he should also rub his eyes and then, once he had come to himself, he turned the gas lamp to full in order to illuminate [the room]. He didn't see a single tear fall on Uhling's cheeks – he was the visitor – nor the trace of ones that had dried! Yet, he wrote in his own hand a certificate to confirm the lady's death and its causation. The president suspected at once that not everything was right, and he made a swift and thorough investigation, which determined with clear proof that Uhling, Louisa, and others had been guilty of trying to swindle the ten thousand dollars in an exceptionally bold and foolhardy plot.
Exposing the fraud began by proving that Doctor Uhling himself was the one who signed the certificate! It was also found that the pair were not married, because they would have found it very difficult to raise the funds [to get married]. We should also have said sooner that Louisa was very poorly – or at least she appeared as such even to doctors – because she was foaming greatly at the mouth, and she appeared deranged. When it was announced that she had died, (to some two or three of the Doctor's acquaintances), this didn't astound them. The funeral director was sent for, a coffin was purchased, the name and age was carved, the body was placed inside, it was taken to the grave, a sombre service was held, it was buried, and the grave was filled. The Insurance supervisors' next task was to obtain permission to exhume the body, which was obtained. The coffin was taken to the morgue, and in the presence of medical and civil authorities, the coffin lid was opened, and Oh! what shock filled them all when they saw that it was nineteen bricks, and not Louisa Germs, that had died and been buried! There was great confusion, then, as to whether Louisa was alive or dead – had Uhling murdered her – lifted her from the coffin, and buried her in a secret location? After an expert investigation, the swindler's hiding place was found, and he was taken, along with his wife, and the undertaker, into the hold, and after that, Louisa Germs, the fake-death drama's protagonist, was found and captured. And so now this cunning family are to appear in court, awaiting the wrath of the law. Louisa confessed to the crime, and laughingly reported how odd she felt when she was placed alive in a coffin. What wonder was it that she seemed to be frothing at the mouth, when Uhling had made her chew soap? Oh dear Lord, what next? Too true is the old saying, "the root of all evil is avarice." – Y Drych