'A young man of Rome,' said he [Cato], 'was once sheriff of Lesodonia; and one day he was cutting a spear-shaft, and his wife was frolicking with him, and he played. In doing so, he touched the point of the knife with her hand until blood came forth. And he took it so badly, that he pierced himself through under the top of the breast with his knife, until he fell dead to the ground. And after performing the rites and services in his court, he was taken to the church to be buried. And it was a marvel that the tips of her fingers were not bruised by the speed with which she beat her hands together as she mourned for her husband. Every cry she uttered was louder than that of any horn or bell over the whole city. And after her husband was buried and everyone had left the church, her mother bade the lady to come with her home. And she swore by the Man above that she would not leave until she died. "You cannot," said her mother, "fulfil those words. And therefore it is better for you to come to your court to mourn for your husband than to stay in such an awfully dreadful place, so lonely as this". "I will prove whether I can," said she. Thereupon she bade her mother light a huge bright fire before her, and leave food and drink to be consumed when hunger came upon her for hunger may not be borne. And that night, a splendid, strong knight from the fort was watching an outlaw that was hanged that day. And as he turned far and near he saw a clear bright light where he had not seen any before. And he pricked his steed to see where the fire was, and why it had been lit. And when he came, he saw a wall, and graveyard, and a church, and a fire high and bright in the church. And he tethered his steed, and let him graze at the gate of the graveyard. And then and there in his arms he rushed to the church and looked to see who was therein, and when he came, there was no one save a young woman sitting over a freshly dug grave, with a bright smokeless fire before her, and a portion of food and drink at her side. And he asked what so young a person of such a tender age, of so frail a body and so gentle a disposition, was doing in such a dreadful place by herself. And then she said that she had no fear whether death came to her soon or late. And the knight asked her why that was. "I have buried," said she, "the man whom I ever loved the most and whom I shall love as long as I live in this place today. It is safe [to say] that he also loved me more than any when he brought about his own death for my sake." "Oh princess," said the knight, "if you were to follow my advice you would turn from that thought, and would take a husband who might be its good as your own, or might be better." "No, by Him that is above, I will not take a husband after him." And after they had conversed a while, the knight went towards the gallows, and when he came, lo, one of the robbers had been taken away; and he bore it ill, because it was the knight’s service, for his ground and land, to keep gentle folk that had been hanged from being taken by their family to be buried. And he came back again to the lady and told her of the conflict and the misfortune. "If you were to promise to marry me, I would free you from that issue," said she. "Here is my word," said he, "I will marry you." "This is how you will do," said she. "Exhume the man [her husband] that lies here, and hang him up instead of the robber, and no one will know it save for the two of us." And so he dug up the hole until he came to the body. "Here he is," said he. "Throw him up," said she. "By my confession," said he, "it were easier far me to fight three living men than set my hand upon a single dead man." "I will put mine," said she, and she leapt a nimble leap into the hole, and threw the body up on the edge of the grave. "Take him to the gallows," said she. "God knows not," said he, "how I or my steed can journey, but with difficulty, for the amount of harness that is upon me." "I can," said she; "put him upon my shoulder." And when she got him upon her shoulder she walked fearlessly with long strides, carrying him until she came to the gallows. "Oh," said the knight, "what good is that? There was a strike of a sword upon the outlaw’s head." "Strike him," said she, "a strike upon this man." "By my confession, I will not." "By my confession," said she, "I will strike him." And she struck her husband's head with a heavy stroke by her sword. "Yes," said the knight, "what good is that? The robber was toothless." "I will make this one toothless," said she. And she got a big stone and raised her hand against him until the skin on his lips his teeth were fragmented by the force and strength of the blow. "Yes," said the knight then, "the robber was bald." "I will make him bald," said she. And she took her husband’s head between her knees with her two feet on his two shoulders. No woman shearing or man shaving was ever as quick as she in fleecing her husband's head. And quickly from his forehead to the crown of his head she left not a hair without plucking it away more than the parchment-maker leaves on parchment. And after she had finished, she bade the knight hang him. "Here is my belief," said he, "I will not hang him, and you will not hang him either, and if you were the only woman in the world, I would have none of you, because, when you were so faithless towards the man that married you when you were but a maiden, and took his life for your love, you would be a faithless thing to me, never having caught sight of me before tonight. And therefore go whichever way you please, for I will never want you. By my confession to God, Lord Emperor, so unfaithful as this henceforward shall be the wife who is the cause of your son's execution. Here is my belief: he shall not be put to death," said he. And after she finished eating, the lady asked the Emperor whether he had put his son to death. "No," said he. "Nor will you ever," said she, "so long as the Wise Men of Rome live, for as the nurse draws the child from his anger and fright by singing and chanting in his ears or by showing him silly and trivial things to him, so the Wise Men of Rome draw you from your alarm for the dishonour and shame I met with at your son’s hands, by their talk and discourse of the same complexion as the lies they showed you. And it will befall you at last, by believing them, as it once befell the king who saw himself blinded in his dreams each night." 'How was that?' said the Emperor. 'I will not tell you unless you will pledge your faith to destroy your son tomorrow.' 'By my faith, he shall be destroyed,' said he.