The men of Poitiers and the men of Tours arrived for his death. And when he died, there was much contention for his body between these people. The Poitevins said, ‘Martin was a monk of ours and an abbot, and we desire to have his body because it is enough for you to have been able to converse with him while he was in the world and to have his death and his life to strengthen you through his blessing and, more than that, to hearten you by means of his miracles. Permit us now to have the lifeless body.’ And against that, they, the men of Tours, said, ‘If you are saying that the miracles he performed with us are enough for us, know that his deeds were greater with you than with us, because he raised two men from the dead with you, and one with us. And as he himself often said, his miracles were greater before he became bishop than afterwards. And because of that, it is necessary to accomplish in death that which he did not accomplish in life. He was taken from you, and God gave him to us. And indeed, if an old custom is upheld through God’s command, he will have his grave in the city where he [i.e. God] consecrated him as bishop. And if you are claiming the body through the prerogative of the monastery, know that it was amongst the men of Milan158 that he first had a monastery.’ And they were arguing and disputing like this until night came.

And then the body was placed in the middle between the two parties to await the daytime. And the Poitevins resolved that, as soon as they saw daylight, they would take the body from the others by force. Nevertheless, the Almighty God did not want the city of Tours to be without a patron. It happened that sleep fell upon the Poitevins around midnight, to the extent that not one of them was awake. And when the other party saw them like that, they stole the blessed body out through a window to their companions. And they bore it to the ship. And they went singing along the water, and with great rejoicing they went towards the city of Tours. And because of this singing the Poitevins awoke. And when they saw that the treasure they had been guarding had been lost, they went home in great shame. And this was four hundred and twelve years after our Lord, Jesus Christ, suffered.