Sixty-four years after the most holy Martin went to heaven, a virtuous holy man called Perpetuus was bishop in Tours, where Martin had been bishop previously. And that good man set his mind and his resolve upon augmenting the church above Martin’s body in terms of size and beauty, and more nobly than before, and providing an honourable location [in which] to place his blessed body. And he completed that beautifully and perfectly. And then he planned to dedicate that temple and move the blessed body to the place that had been provided for it.

And on the day appointed for that, namely the first day of July, Saint Perpetuus summoned on this matter all the bishops and abbots of the regions, along with countless clerics. And everyone kept vigil and prayed to God and Martin during the preceding night. And next morning they re-opened the grave, until they came to the coffin where the blessed treasure was. And then the whole assembly offered their hands and all their strength to try to raise the coffin up from the earth, but it did not avail them. And that night they kept vigil and prayed. And the next day they tried to move the coffin, and they could not. They were astonished at that and greatly afraid, to the point that they did not know what they should do. And then one of the clerics said to them, ‘Don’t you know that the day after tomorrow is the anniversary of the day that Martin was made bishop? Perchance it is on that day that he would wish his bones to be raised.’ And thereupon all the people spent those days entirely in keeping vigil and fasting and praying to God day and night.

And on the fourth day, they arrived above the grave and tried to pull the body out, and they could not move it at all. They became very sad, with immense fear in their hearts, to the point that they did not know what they should do. However, just as they were planning to cast the soil upon the grave again, behold! an old man of dignified manner and appearance, and his hair as white as snow, and he said to them, ‘For how long will you tarry and be afraid? Do you not see the Lord Martin standing ready to help you, if you will place your hands upon the coffin?’ Thereupon he threw off his cloak and put his hand on the coffin along with the other priests, with the wax candles lit and the crosses ready, singing an antiphon and exalted hymns. At the old man’s urging, they raised up the coffin easily and bore it to the place that had been ordained for it. And after the masses had come to an end and they had gone to eat, they searched everywhere for the old man, and they could not find him, nor anyone who had seen him going out of the church. And it seemed to everyone that that was some kind of manifestation of miraculous angelic powers