Abraham Lincoln's Reburial
On Thursday, April 14, that which was mortal of the immortal Abraham Lincoln was reburied. April 15, 1865, twenty two years ago, Lincoln was assassinated by Booth. His body was embalmed at the Government's instruction, and at the appropriate time, it was buried in Springfield, Illinois. No one had ever received such a funeral nor so many mourners. The world mourned together at his tomb, and the small spot by his grave was dear to thousands. However, despite how hallow the grave and its contents may have been, and although God's angels were watching over dear Lincoln's ashes, around nine years ago, devils attempted to rob the grave of the country's most dearest fellow, and they were very close to succeeding. The failed attempt to steal the body was enough to spur the Memorial Society to bury him in a secret location, and, like Moses's body, nobody knew where exactly this was, save for a few companions who kept a constant eye over it. The body was exhumed last Thursday, and he was unveiled to those present. The remains were well kept, and it was easy to recognize the face of the departed. Then, Abraham Lincoln was reburied in a place where he will rest from now until the woeful sounding of the 'great thin horn'. The grave was made so secure that it is no longer possible for devilish thieves to disturb the ashes of the American nation's dearest man. The coffin that held the remains was placed in a new coffin made of walnut wood, encased in lead of a quarter of an inch thick, which was itself then placed in another coffin made of pine wood. The remains were placed in a strong crypt, in a beautiful mausoleum, in the capital city of Illinois State. Although he has been buried out of sight, he stays with us in his deeds. So long as there is a star on our flag, and so long as men in our country value freedom and equality, Lincoln's memory shall be cherished. Time shall spoil his body, but neither time nor eternity shall spoil his good name nor his immortal deed of 'freeing the bonds of slavery'.