Let it be certain to all that it is in the graveyard of the monastery of Glastonbury, after his mortal wound on the river Camlan, that Arthur was buried, between two crosses of stone made from the ingenuity of craftsmanship. And these were raised standing highly, with letters on them which had been to proclaim that the grave of Arthur was there. And now those letters have been worn away from age. Let it be known, however, to all, that the grave of Arthur was not of marble stone. There was no grave for Arthur, except that he was placed inside an oak after it had been hollowed out, and he was buried sixteen feet deep in the earth. The grave is two parts of length, as if the two highest thirds were separated from the [lower] third. And as if it were a border between them, the third part is separated from them by the arranged bones of Arthur, which were large and sturdy. In the skull there were sixteen wounds, and each one of them had closed and hardened except one, and that one was open and large, as though it were certain that it was from that one that he had become dead [i.e. that had been fatal to him.] In the third part of the grave, like the two parts of the bottom, were the bones of Gwenhwyfar his wife, as they can be recognized as smaller and more feminine. And among those things a plait of yellow hair was found. It was fair to look upon. And on the plait a monk from the monastery fixed his gaze, he who had come together with the group to the opening of the grave. And he noticed [it] before the rest. He hastened and snatched the plait. And as he took it in his hand and showed it, with all looking and marveling at its beauty, suddenly in front of everyone it disappeared from his hand. And that event did not happen without miracles. And it was shown manifestly to everyone, and chiefly to the religious men who came there, the thing which was least appropriate for them, that they should not look nor feel a woman’s hair: that every worldly thing, most especially all the things most beautiful to look upon, is transitory and common, as is witnessed through the judgement and authority of the wise man, who said this: “Fairness and stature of human appearance is transitory and swift, quicker to flee and to vanish than the inconstancy of spring flowers.”