GOLD IN A GRAVE

In a rural pub in the upper part of Pembrokeshire, two gravediggers happen upon one another. The names of the two gravediggers, according to the local language [i.e. the north Pembrokeshire dialect], were Wil Canan and Shoni Tre Hir. Wil was a gravedigger in the Baptist chapel's cemetery and Shoni was a gravedigger in the parish church's cemetery. After greeting one another in the usual manner, they began to discuss the nature of the work they were each doing, its difficulties and the strange things they would see when digging graves. Wil said to Shoni, regarding the importance of the work, "Our cemetery is a horrible place to dig graves. It is awfully uneven, laying upon a riverbank, full of large rocks, and extremely wet. When the burying happens during very wet weather, and service near the grave is rather long, the coffin would begin float before I can start closing it in. What's more is that our cemetery is rather a new one, and so each grave I dig is in new ground. Up until now, I haven't come across nor seen anything worth talking about, and I don't think that I nor any of my successors in this line of the world's work will find as much as a speck of gold that a fly might carry on its back even up until the very last grave that will be dug in our graveyard. To speak of gold in a grave, honestly, the most unlikely place in the whole world." "Well," says Shoni rather earnestly, "our cemetery is very old indeed – older by several centuries than any nonconformist graveyard in Wales or England. Our church was built in the seventh century, and it and the cemetery were dedicated to some Irish saint called Colman, and ever since then there has been some burials happening there. Every inch of it is taken up by human bodies. I have been digging graves there now for over fort years, and I have not, to this day, dug a grave without it [already] being full of bones, and judging by examining some of them, I believe that many that the residents of our parish in the olden days were Anacians[?] in size. I have also seen several skulls, and many of them full of teeth, and I would think that our ancestors didn't have to worry too much about toothache. I had one skull that was different from the norm, and the priest and I examined it, and, to our great surprise, we found a three-inch nail driven into the top the head, and the consensus was that that this poor thing had been murdered. Around twenty years ago, I was digging a grave for a respected farmer, very near the chancel wall. As I was digging down, I realised that some nobleman from the olden days was buried in the same place. I struck a coffin, but it was so brittle that it broke into pieces. As I lifted up the fragments, I saw two pieces, similar to two coins. I grabbed them and after rubbing them for a while with some gravel in my hands, I realised that they were two pieces of silver. I made the discovery known to the priest, and he made a subsequent discovery, and he found out that they were two pieces of silver from the time of Henry VIII, and I received ten shillings [6x20; 120 pence] for them, and I reckon that a lot of silver and gold was buried with the dead in the olden days." "Well," says Wil to Shoni, "did you ever hear of gold being found in a grave?." "Yes," says Shoni, "and I also heard that one man made himself a fortune in grave digging. See here Wil, luck can be had even when digging graves. And remember also that a grave is the only thing in the world that cannot be named until it is dug.""Where," asked Wil in astonishment, "did such a thing happen?" "I shall tell you now," said Shoni, "the story as I read it some years ago in the "Herald Cymraeg". In California, in the year 1852, two men named Martin and Flower went to the mountains to look for gold. After mining arduously in various places for some months, but with no success, they had decided to give one more place a go before giving up, and after working hard day and night, running low on bread for three weeks, they failed to find hardly any gold. Flower fell to the hard work and starvation and died two days later. Rather than leaving his body like a carcass in the open air, Martin, despite being so tired, weak, and mournful, decided to dig his friend a grave. After digging down four feet, he came across a lump of gold weighing 157 pounds and 6 ounces, and he sold it for the sum of 7253 pounds. How's that for a fortune from digging graves?" "Yes indeed; yes indeed. Do you know what, Shoni, it is certain to you that the gravediggers in Klondyke make it just as well as miners, since the riverbeds and the earth there is full of gold." "Do you know what I see in that story, is that it is possible, with perseverance, for a man from any profession to make his fortune, and as an end to the matter, here are the words of the wisest of men, 'the hand of the diligent makes rich'"